README.md, before:

# awesome-democracy-tools
A list of awesome democracy tools, especially for application in Kenya

## Table of Contents

* [Accountability](#accountability)
* [Corruption](#corruption)
* [Event Crowdsourcing](#event-crowdsourcing)
* [Law, Regulations and Bills](#law-regulations-and-bills)
* [Public Participation](#public-participation)
* [Transparency](#transparency)

## Accountability

* [Kenya Kwanza Promise Tracker](https://dexxe.notion.site/bf6fb7d1a22444868bf7da5fa42d8121?v=3b6a9447ec004387b6d5642ee4c7ebe5): Tracking the promises made by the Kenya Kwanza Govt that got into power in 2022 led by Dr. William Ruto. 
* [KK Promises](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12_sOeITaMcrbdH-21Lj29582soUnai1oW6fJ2nZziaQ/edit?gid=0#gid=0): Google sheet with Kenya Kwanza promises.
* [Mzalendo Promise Tracker](https://tracker.mzalendo.com): The Promise Tracker tracks the progress of the ruling party, Kenya Kwanza, in actualizing its pledges as contained in the party manifesto from 13th September 2022 when President William Ruto was sworn in.

## Corruption

* [Corrupt Politicians GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-MVyroWjCS-corrupt-politicians-gpt): Type a name and see all corruption cases associated with the politician.
* [Mandera County Misuse of Allocated Funds Summary GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-e99Bd4xC1-mandera-county-misuse-of-allocated-funds-summary): Summarizes misuse of funds in Mandera County.

## Event Crowdsourcing

* [Ushahidi](https://www.ushahidi.com): Ushahidi is an open source software application which utilises user-generated reports to collate and map data. It uses the concept of crowdsourcing serving as an initial model for what has been coined as "activist mapping"[3] – the combination of social activism, citizen journalism and geographic information. Ushahidi allows local observers to submit reports using their mobile phones or the Internet, creating an archive of events with geographic and time-date information.

## Law, Regulations and Bills

* [Finance Bill GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-JBq7D0E5x-finance-bill-gpt): Get to understand the Kenya Finance Bill 2024
* [Kenya Law Guide GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-UvOnmgprA-kenya-law-guide) (⛔️ _Error: "GPT inaccessible or not found"_): Your AI-powered assistant for navigating Kenyan law. Understand the Constitution, Acts of Parliament, and bills with ease.

## Public Participation

* [Bonga na Mzalendo](https://mzalendo.com/bonga/) (_⚠️ seems outdated_): send feedback about proposed bills or other discussion topics by sms.
* [Mzalendo Dokeza](https://dokeza.mzalendo.com): Dokeza aims to facilitate and enhance public participation in lawmaking. The Constitution of Kenya 2010 in Art. 118 requires public participation in all governance processes including legislation. Mzalendo through Dokeza intends to bridge the public participation gap by providing Kenyans especially those online a platform where they can inform law making and have their views presented in Parliament as a memoranda.
* [RECALL.KE](https://recall.ke) (‼️Site has been found to be insecure; user profile data may be compromised): Recall your member of national assembly.

  
## Transparency 

* [Mzalendo Hansard](https://info.mzalendo.com/hansard/): The official record of the Kenyan National Assembly is called the Hansard – named after the British publication of parliamentary proceedings. Included on the site are Hansard records dating back to 2006, with the records for each individual day listed below. When you click on the link, you go through to a page containing the full text of the proceedings. You can search Hansard for terms that interest you – for instance the name of a particular politician, a specific location or an issue that you are interested in.

Commit message:

Refactor doc structure and add How to Contribute section

README.md, after:

# awesome-democracy-tools
A list of awesome democracy tools, especially for application in Kenya

## Hot to Contribute

Either create an Issue, or fork this repo and create a pull request. For new entries, make sure to include name, category, link, short description (preferably copied from the tool/site itself), as well as remarks about security warnings, outdated or non-working state, etc.

# Tools List

## Table of Contents

* [Accountability](#accountability)
* [Corruption](#corruption)
* [Event Crowdsourcing](#event-crowdsourcing)
* [Law, Regulations and Bills](#law-regulations-and-bills)
* [Public Participation](#public-participation)
* [Transparency](#transparency)

## Accountability

* [Kenya Kwanza Promise Tracker](https://dexxe.notion.site/bf6fb7d1a22444868bf7da5fa42d8121?v=3b6a9447ec004387b6d5642ee4c7ebe5): Tracking the promises made by the Kenya Kwanza Govt that got into power in 2022 led by Dr. William Ruto. 
* [KK Promises](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12_sOeITaMcrbdH-21Lj29582soUnai1oW6fJ2nZziaQ/edit?gid=0#gid=0): Google sheet with Kenya Kwanza promises.
* [Mzalendo Promise Tracker](https://tracker.mzalendo.com): The Promise Tracker tracks the progress of the ruling party, Kenya Kwanza, in actualizing its pledges as contained in the party manifesto from 13th September 2022 when President William Ruto was sworn in.

## Corruption

* [Corrupt Politicians GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-MVyroWjCS-corrupt-politicians-gpt): Type a name and see all corruption cases associated with the politician.
* [Mandera County Misuse of Allocated Funds Summary GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-e99Bd4xC1-mandera-county-misuse-of-allocated-funds-summary): Summarizes misuse of funds in Mandera County.

## Event Crowdsourcing

* [Ushahidi](https://www.ushahidi.com): Ushahidi is an open source software application which utilises user-generated reports to collate and map data. It uses the concept of crowdsourcing serving as an initial model for what has been coined as "activist mapping"[3] – the combination of social activism, citizen journalism and geographic information. Ushahidi allows local observers to submit reports using their mobile phones or the Internet, creating an archive of events with geographic and time-date information.

## Law, Regulations and Bills

* [Finance Bill GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-JBq7D0E5x-finance-bill-gpt): Get to understand the Kenya Finance Bill 2024
* [Kenya Law Guide GPT](https://chatgpt.com/g/g-UvOnmgprA-kenya-law-guide) (⛔️ _Error: "GPT inaccessible or not found"_): Your AI-powered assistant for navigating Kenyan law. Understand the Constitution, Acts of Parliament, and bills with ease.

## Public Participation

* [Bonga na Mzalendo](https://mzalendo.com/bonga/) (_⚠️ seems outdated_): send feedback about proposed bills or other discussion topics by sms.
* [Mzalendo Dokeza](https://dokeza.mzalendo.com): Dokeza aims to facilitate and enhance public participation in lawmaking. The Constitution of Kenya 2010 in Art. 118 requires public participation in all governance processes including legislation. Mzalendo through Dokeza intends to bridge the public participation gap by providing Kenyans especially those online a platform where they can inform law making and have their views presented in Parliament as a memoranda.
* [RECALL.KE](https://recall.ke) (‼️Site has been found to be insecure; user profile data may be compromised): Recall your member of national assembly.

  
## Transparency 

* [Mzalendo Hansard](https://info.mzalendo.com/hansard/): The official record of the Kenyan National Assembly is called the Hansard – named after the British publication of parliamentary proceedings. Included on the site are Hansard records dating back to 2006, with the records for each individual day listed below. When you click on the link, you go through to a page containing the full text of the proceedings. You can search Hansard for terms that interest you – for instance the name of a particular politician, a specific location or an issue that you are interested in.
